---
title: "Happy Mamba Day!"
date: 2017-04-13 13:29:06 -0400
tags: sports
---
**Happy Mamba Day!**

In honor of the holiday created by Nike for the famous Kobe Bryant, my favorite basketball player, I present to you a<!--sep--> heavily revised version of a persuasive paper I wrote in 2013 for an English class.

## The NBA’s G.O.A.T.: ##
“Who is the greatest basketball player to ever play?” This is the topic in discussion among many individuals at times. I myself have been a victim to this discussion on several occasions. The answer people give to this question varies greatly, but the majority falls within a specific group of a few past and present NBA players. The most popular answer is of course Michael Jordan, but I am willing to argue that another player is in fact the “G.O.A.T.” In this paper, I will argue that Kobe Bean Bryant is the greatest basketball player ever to play. I will use not only Bryant’s statistics, but the several accomplishments that he has achieved with his teammates and his several accolades for offensive and defensive awards compared to other players as well, to show readers why he is the best ever. Ultimately, such an analysis aims to construct a thorough argument for Kobe that is both persuasive and quantitative.

Kobe Bryant’s career overview is so amazing, that his resume is incomparable to the majority of current and previous NBA players. Kobe Bryant’s regular season statistics are an average of 25.5 points per game(ppg), 5.3 rebounds per game(rpg), and 4.8 assists per game(apg); while his playoff averages are 25.6 ppg, 5.1 rpg, and 4.7 apg (stats.nba.com). Bryant’s stat line is well above the average player (stats.nba.com). Kobe, as well, is a two-time finals MVP and has also been awarded as the NBA’s season MVP in 2008. Not only is Bryant the highest active all-time scoring player in the NBA, but he is also fourth on the all-time NBA scoring list; and only 646 points away from third place. On top of Kobe’s placement on the all-time scoring list, #24 (Kobe Bryant) was also named the youngest player ever to reach a career total of 28,000 points. Kobe has also been voted to be a NBA All-Star several times, with the record for fifteen appearances as a starter, and an accumulation of four All-Star MVP awards. To add on to Kobe’s several achievements, Bryant has been named to the All-NBA 1st team a total of eleven times and the All-Defensive 1st team a total of nine times; in fact, Kobe has received an award or honor at least once in every season of his career.

When Kobe was drafted into the NBA by the Utah Jazz, he was almost immediately traded to the Los Angeles Lakers through a deal made prior to the draft; Kobe has always been a Laker ever since. Kobe helped the Lakers to continue on their successful legacy, which has been on a drought  from the NBA Finals since 1991, and without a championship since 1988. With  Bryant, the Lakers were able to win an NBA championship on five separate occasions in the year 2000-2002 and 2009-2010. Kobe consistently hit game-changing shots and was an essential part of the teams victories during the NBA playoffs and finals; which is why Lamar Odom, a former Lakers teammate of Kobe’s said, “He makes the incredible normal” (qtd. in Thornley 4). Kobe is not just a team player for Los Angeles Lakers, but has also helped the Western Conference (WC) All-Star team, as well Team USA, make many accomplishments. With Kobe being apart of the WC All-Star team, the team was able to overcome the Eastern Conference All-Star team nine times out of his fifteen appearances. As for Team USA, Bryant played for the United States five times to achieve a 36-0 record and win a gold medal twice in the summer olympics (usab.com).

People always try to propose many arguments for why another player is the NBA’s greatest of all time, but their argument usually is not strong enough. For example, although many people consider William “Bill” Russell the NBA’s “G.O.A.T.” because he has eleven NBA rings, if that were in fact the case, then the top six all-time players would be six players from the Celtics in the 1950’s and 1960’s; one being Thomas Sanders who averaged less than 10 ppg, 6.3 rpg, and only 1.1 apg (Stern, Jordan, Hubbard, NBA 731). To base the greatest players of all time off of just championship rings, which is a team effort, is just unrealistic. Michael Jordan is also arguably the greatest basketball player of all time, even opposing player Larry Bird said, “I think he’s [Jordan] God disguised as Michael Jordan” (qtd. LaFeber 51). While I agree that Jordan is amazing, I argue that Kobe Bryant is an even greater player than him because he has not only accomplished many of the feats Jordan has, but he has accomplishments that Jordan has never achieved as well. An example of such an achievement is when Kobe scored a total of 81 points in one game against the Toronto Raptors, a feat surmounted only by Wilt Chamberlain’s 100 point game decades prior.

Kobe Bryant is the epitome of a superstar, the overview of Bryant’s career is amazing, which is why he is arguably the NBA’s G.O.A.T. Many have argued why other players are the NBA’s greatest, but I have used Kobe Bryant’s statistics, awards, and honors, and even compared his achievements to other NBA players to construct a quantitative and persuasive argument; and to furthermore show readers why he is the best NBA player ever.

<br>
### Works Cited ###
- Jordan, Michael, David J Stern, Jan Hubbard, and National Basketball Association. The Official NBA Encyclopedia. 3rd ed. New York: Doubleday, 2000. Print.
- Thornley, Stew. Kobe Bryant: Champion Basketball Star. Berkeley Heights: Enslow Publishers, 2013. Print.
- "Official League Leaders." Stats.nba.com. Ed. NBA. National Basketball Association, 2013. Web. 12 Dec. 2013. <http://www.stats.nba.com/leadersGrid.html>.
- LaFeber, Walter. Michael Jordan and The New Global Capitalism. 1st ed. New York: W.W. Norton & Company, 1999. Print.
- "Kobe Bryant." Usab.com/bios/bryant_kobe.html. Ed. NBA. National Basketball Association, 2010. Web. 12 Dec. 2013. <http://www.usab.com/bios/bryant_kobe.html>.

#### Happy Mamba's Day!
