---
title: "How I Passed The OCAJP Certification Exam"
date: 2016-12-15 15:12:33 -0400
categories: Tech
tags: tech
---
**Oracle Certified Associate Java Programmer**

Last week I took the Oracle Certification Exam (1Z0-808) for my first attempt, and passed with a 91%!
<!--sep-->

Prior to taking this certification exam, I was extremely nervous that I would be far from prepared. I've heard many stories about how difficult the exam is, be it from my college programming professor, or from online forums such as [coderanch.com](https://coderanch.com) and [javaranch.com](https://javaranch.com). Many test takers discussed how they studied for weeks to take the exam, only to spend the money on the test and fail miserably. Some even said they failed three times!
I had approximately two weeks to study for the certification at the time when I began to seriously study before my test date. After hearing and seeing the stories of those that failed even though they were preparing for weeks, I tried to cling to the hope of the few stories I saw about test takers passing the exam with a scores like 96% on the first try. I viewed their success stories and studying methods, and employed my own studying method for the certification exam.

#### Studying Method ####

I used the book OCA, Oracle Certified Associate Java SE 8 Programmer I Study Guide, Exam 1Z0-808 by Jeanne Boyarsky and Scott Selikoff, and mock exams to study and prepare for the certification exam. I also used websites such as [codingbat.com](https://codingbat.com/java) and various others to practice programming problems. Please take note that although I only studied for approximately two weeks to prepare for the IZ0-808 exam, I already had about ten months of experience learning Java through college courses and self-practice.

The greatest tool I learned to use when studying for the exam was the Enthuware mock exams which can be found at (enthuware.com)[http://enthuware.com/index.php/mock-exams/oracle-certified-associate/java-oca-certification-8]. I discovered these exams from the forums mentioned above and a little bit of word-of-mouth. I highly recommend these exams for a number of reasons:
1. The format of the mock exams are extremely similar to the format of IZ0-808 certification exam.
2. The mock exams are harder than the actual exam, which gives extra preparation for the real deal.
3. The extensive amount of questions in the Enthuware test bank, and the various type of practice tests that can be attempted are very useful.
4. Each question from the test bank comes with an explanation for each answer, which provides a deeper understanding.

To use the Enthuware mock exams in conjunction with Jeanne and Scott's book turned out to be the prefect formula for me. I first read through the book and attempted the mock questions at the end of each chapter. This helped me learn a great deal about the specifics of Java. I would the take one of the mock exams from the Enthuware software. After reviewing my results, I would find the sections I did poorly in, and review those topics in the book to try and understand why. I continued to do this through the 4 of the 6 Enthuware mock exams until my scores increased dramatically.
